Archangel Group 

IoT Challenge
Propose a high-level design for a smart IoT device that can monitor an animal migration bottleneck
in the African savannah to count numbers of each species in each direction of travel. Include a major
components list, outline work plan for the complete solution. Candidates are not expected to spend
more than a few hours on the task.



Solution. 


A number of different approaches can be used for tracking a large number of animals. Modern Machine vision 
cameras are quite good at counting heads in crowds, however when it comes to animals, they
do come in very different shapes and sizes and the camera's work would be much more difficult. 

Thermal camera systems could also work, but the job of counting a large number of animals passing through
in parallel is still quite complex.

If there is a choke point through which animals pass, I would investigate the use of pressure counting 
systems. through the use these mats put under a thin layer of soil can accurately count animals passing through
and by installing several systems in series, we can also detect the direction of motion and size of 
animals. 

The basic technology is not super complex. the technology used by traffic counters is applicable. 

The pressure sensor can be a force sensitive resistor. It would have a top and bottom protective layer
The entire device would be covered in sand during operation. 

The anciliary parts would be an low power embedded counter and a separate long range telemetry system (LORAWAN/SIGFOX) 
to send signals back to base. The reason I'd use two separate embedded devices is to use a very low
power system for counting and collating, and then sending back the collated data once every few hours. 
This way the battery would not need recharging and there would not need to be a need for external power. 

For a more complex system, the pressure sensors (piezo electric sensor) could themselves generate the power used by the micropocessor and lorawan, allowing a reduction in battery size and an unobstructed operational life limited only by the physical survival of the components.
